---
type: page
title: Block Diagram
listed: false
slug: block-diagram-rak5005-o
---draft

The block diagram is shown in Figure 1. It shows the internal architecture and external interfaces of the RAK5005-O board.

$plugin[{
    "type": "image",
    "data": {
        "url": "https:\/\/res.cloudinary.com\/developerhub\/image\/upload\/v1594996924\/32153\/zoyfmrrgqiyeahf37t6x.png",
        "mode": "full",
        "width": 608,
        "height": 329,
        "caption": "**Figure 1**: Block Diagram"
    }
}]$

### Data Bus of RAK5005-O

Figure 2 shows the data bus connections between the different modules:

$plugin[{
    "type": "image",
    "data": {
        "url": "https:\/\/res.cloudinary.com\/developerhub\/image\/upload\/v1594996935\/32153\/chipqspyfzh4fqvbdbze.png",
        "mode": "full",
        "width": 1202,
        "height": 529,
        "caption": "**Figure 2**: RAK5005-O data bus"
    }
}]$

The MCU module exposes the I2C, UART, and SPI data bus to the sensor modules. Through these buses, the CPU can retrieve data from the sensor and also control the sensors. In addition, USB, GPIO, and ADC ports are also connected to the IO module, which allows the customer to access all of the MCU interfaces on the IO board.

Some type of MCU has fewer IO pins. In such cases, not all the pins of the data bus are connected. For example, only I2C and UART are connected. Some MCU’ IO has an alternate function, you can modify its function by software or rework the hardware to redefine the function of IO. Please refer to the datasheet of WisDuo to get the detail.

### Power Supply Diagram of RAK5005-O

$plugin[{
    "type": "image",
    "data": {
        "url": "https:\/\/res.cloudinary.com\/developerhub\/image\/upload\/v1594996948\/32153\/vqhdqleh3stxopxwemfl.png",
        "mode": "responsive",
        "width": 1250,
        "height": 465,
        "caption": "**Figure 3**: Power Supply Block Diagram"
    }
}]$

The RAK5005-O is designed to be powered by a battery and provides the charger circuitry for a lithium battery. The charger circuitry can be connected to a wall outlet charger through the micro USB connector, or through the specific connector for the solar panel.

A low quiescent current LDO is used for generating 3.3V, the 3.3V power supply drives MCU module (WisDuo) and IO module (WisIO) directly.

The max current supported by the 3.3V LDO on RAK5005-O is 750mA, it can drive MCU, LoRa, and MEMS sensor.

The VDD is generated by the MCU module to drive sensor and IO modules. The MCUs are usually powered by the 3.3V, and can provide different levels of voltage: 3.3V, 2.5V, and 1.8V to their IO pins through regulators in the WisDue board. 

3V3_S is another 3.3V power supply, it can be controlled by the MCU in order to disconnect the power sensors during an idle period to save power. 3V3_S is controlled by the IO2 pin on the WisDueo board. 

- Set IO2=1, 3V3_S is on;
- Set IO2=0, 3V3_S is off;

